i had a long
meaningful passion delivered but largely
ignored video
talking about public monuments and
government policy for the arts just a
few days ago
many of you missed it remarkably few
people watch it
compared even to melissa's analysis of
the importance or lack of importance
of uh music in education
and you know in following up afterwards
i shared with my patreon subscribers
one of the most hilarious and the most
awful
examples of public art here in victoria
canada
perhaps anywhere in canada perhaps
anywhere in the world and it's a giant
metal sign and it's placed on quite a
busy road it's in quite a prominent
place like you'd think it was
advertising
ordering the way this sign is set up
it's in the middle of a park it's your
taxpayers dollars at work
and it is proudly proclaiming every time
you
walk past that uh night
is for sleeping new sentence
day is for resting
so this is this is literally a monument
to laziness
this is letting you know every time you
walk past this if you live in this
neighborhood you're seeing this
oh the fact that night time is for
sleeping
doesn't mean that you need to be alert
and hard working during the day
no no no night is for sleeping
day is for resting your taxpayers
dollars at work now if you live in the
united
states if you live in europe you might
get
sick of seeing uh patriotic slogans
declarations about you know feeling
grateful for our troops
you might just feel you're seeing this
message a little bit too often i've got
to tell you
the most saccharine the most
tear-jerking statement
about war wounded people coming back
from afghanistan
would be so much more meaningful than
this government-sponsored statement that
night is for sleeping days for arresting
i would gladly
see that sign replaced with you know an
image of a limping soldier who's been
wounded by a land mine who returned from
afghanistan and a statement they fought
so that afghan people could have
democracy or whatever propaganda
look on the in terms of propaganda
i could tolerate how about a statement
about sobriety how about a statement
about
hard work or staying in school mr t is
anyone else here old enough to remember
mr t
mr team managed to get you know stay off
drugs stay in school stay in school kids
stay in school kids i don't think mr t
himself stayed in school
mr t the original high school dropout
going around to tell you keep your nose
clean
stay in school kid stay out of trouble
hey kids stay in trouble
stay in school don't be a fool say stay
in school
that put that on a mental side i
wouldn't
jesus day is for resting
night is for sleeping this is a public
art monument taxpayer sponsored monument
this is the capital city of western
canada capital city of british columbia
monuments to laziness all right uh the
woman's lives
uh maybe a short live stream it may be
long uh
is to reply to a letter from a supporter
of the channel on patreon and a member
of the audience
first name danny um
i'm going to read this now i'm going to
think about a little bit i'm going to
talk about a few other issues and i will
come back to this a little bit later
so people who join later when i reply to
this question uh they won't be totally
thrown off
so danny writes in and this this part of
the letter is also kind of interesting
he says
as of today i've been watching your
channel content for half a year
and i learned a lot this is also
interesting i hear from people who've
been watching the channel for
six years in this case six months but
you know you hear from people who
joined at different points in time and
it influenced their lives and difference
and also people who started watching at
different ages i've had letters from
people like
you say to me they started watching my
channel when they were 15 and now
they're 20.
you know what i mean this is like an
influencer that's crucial but anyways
this guy writes in he's been watching
he's watching for half a year
today i finally decided to support you
on patreon as i appreciate your content
i know you're not a fan of making book
recommendations and handing out reading
lists
but i value them and right now i'm in
the process of reading your recommended
list that you gave to melissa
so this includes xenophon aristotle etc
so that's also interesting to me
uh quite a few people as many as five
is it as many as 10 yet people have
written in and said that this
video or series of videos i may be
talking to to melissa well
it's me talking to the fact that melissa
i put her on this kind of catching up
with
catching up with the university
education you should have had but didn't
have
you know i made this uh this special
reading list from melissa and we read it
together
so many of the books maybe all of them i
had read before there might have been
one there might be one or two things
that i hadn't read before i forget
but in any case um i i didn't just
hand the reading store but we read them
together and we talked about them
together and made some youtube videos
starting along the way
not as many youtube videos came out that
as you uh
as you might say i think the title of
that video is why i am forcing you to
read aristotle
is that it okay so we can get that is
that going to be shadow band on youtube
at my channel am i going to get up you
know a lot of stuff any anything to do
with autism
is banned on my channel uh
sir but we'll talk about this okay so
there you go so we presume that is the
right video so fully
three years ago watched by 1 500 people
why i am forcing you to read aristotle
so that's me talking through
look oh so james is in the audience and
james says that he also
started with that recommended reading
list so it is rare we'll talk about that
a little bit more in this
video it is rare that i recommend
somebody read something
but in that case i work through that
list with melissa and it's interesting
to hear that other people change their
lives now
i'm also look let's also do some
follow-up here i think that reading list
profoundly changed melissa's life
i think melissa has changed a lot and
matured a lot as a human being in the
last three years
and i don't think the effects came about
right away like
i don't think reading thucydides the
first time
when you did had an impact immediately
but maybe
later as the years go by and you see
what connects to other things and other
questions
you know getting at those real
fundamental roots
of the origin of democracy in in the
ancient west in the modern west like
maybe
you know it took some time to percolate
but yeah i think it's had a big impact
on melissa and who she is as a person in
her life and it's informed and enrich
it has informed and enriched later
reading that she's done and so on so
yeah anyway interesting to hear that
still
still having consequences um for fans of
the channel
three years on anyway so that is i mean
you know depending on depending on who
you are what you want to know
it is still um an important video to
watch
and a useful reading list so he says
quote quoting this letter from danny my
main concern in reading this list and
eventually getting to aristotle is to
gain a greater understanding of politics
and philosophy in parallel
all over the internet are lists and
charts that contain
many influential persons and
philosophers
descartes kant hegel and many others
leading up to 20th century thinkers
from your position is it worthwhile to
delve into this large corpus of the
western canon
in order to understand the legacy of the
ancient greeks in our modern world as
politics
question mark are some thinkers more
worthy
than others question mark the big
picture question that i couldn't find a
concrete answer to
is why are all of these thinkers being
taught in universities
it's a very good question and nobody's
going to give you the honest answer
why should i or society care for them
should i skip them or read a select few
okay so let's start with um
start with something that's parallel
remarkably different but
important in some of the same ways um
i had an email from somebody i'm sorry i
actually forget who this was but some
longtime
viewer of the channel wrote into me um
probably wouldn't be useful for me to
tell you his name or anything else about
him anyway but there was a guy writing
in
and talking about enrolling in an
advanced
university course in buddhism and this
was at a big famous respectable
university somewhere in the united
states it wasn't a small college
but even the largest universities in
europe and america
they will generally have just one
professor who does buddhism
generally it's rare to have two
professors that's a large
department of buddhist studies so you
know even if they have a very robust
asian studies or religions and religion
and history of asia department
they'll try to have one guy who does
hinduism one guy who does buddhism
right maybe one guy who does islam you
know whatever but they divide it up this
way
so you are lucky to have one specialist
in buddhism university at all but maybe
maybe two maximum so we enrolled in this
course
now okay if you're taking university
level studies
in buddhist philosophy buddhist history
what is politics
what do you read what if the entire
course is nothing but japanese
pure land what is you know this would be
like you enroll
in a class in christianity um
and there's only one professor of
christianity and the entire course is
just about
american mormonism you know now
christianity did not originate in the
united states of america
mormonism is neither the earliest nor
the most representative or the most
influential form of christianity this is
a minor
sectarian variant that comes in very
late in the history and it's very far
removed
geographically culturally and
linguistically from the origins of what
christianity are about why christianity
is so important
so you'd say this is completely
ridiculous obviously there's just one
professor who's like a cult member who's
a true believer in
mormonism and he's perverted this
department to teach nothing but
mormonism as if that's the whole history
of virginia yeah
this happens in buddhist studies and it
happens in
myriad ways uh
you know if someone is going to be an
eccentric you know it's nice if they
don't keep it hidden
all right we had a professor at the
university of toronto
who wore a kilt every time he gave like
there's a man
wearing a traditional scottish scottish
scottish regular scottish dress
okay the word i want to use was dress
it's a kilt but okay it's a man's dress
okay and um he was of the
persuasion that the true
inner essence of calvinism
of the scottish protestant tradition of
calvinism
and the philosophy of buddhism were one
and the same
that like the secret doctrine the inner
essence if you could understand it
and he would stand there in a kilt
giving these lessons so what do you
think the assigned reading list was what
do you think this guy is
this is real all right now
there have been other professors at the
university of toronto and you could be
asked
are they more or less insane other
people are they more or less eccentric
the other professors who have taught
buddhism
just at that same university i i could
now name them and
start calling out their bizarre
ideological inclinations
um all right so what were some examples
here
oh yes emmanuel kant um you know
somebody like nietzsche
he mentions descartes hegel okay
and uh by contrast here's the name
here's the name that's not in your
university reading list here's the name
you probably haven't seen here's
condorcet so that that title
has it in uh kind of hand written the
scripts and there you go
conor saying modernity connor say you
ever heard of this guy
like universally acknowledged as a
genius universally acknowledged as one
of the most important people
in the history of his century or the
history of western civilization
and yet for some reason he's not on any
of those reading lists
next to a fascist like nietzsche
what kind of crypto fascist like hegel
another one i don't have a book for
thomas hobbes
why does why does thomas hobbes matter i
thought hobbs was in this
list but he doesn't he doesn't mention
you know who who decides
who's important who's is hobbs in there
oh that's right yeah okay so hobbs
hobbs does make an appearance in the
email okay um
okay so briefly
you know slavery kind of a big deal
whether or not women have the right to
vote
kind of a big deal now slavery it's a
little bit too broad
let's say more specifically and
especially
the legal equality of black people which
goes beyond
the issue of slavery it's also some ways
more specific right like there can be
slavery of people who aren't black
there's slavery within the history of
sri lanka there's slavery within the
history of thailand
but let's talk about white europeans
enslaving black people
and the consequences condorcet here
is what you would have called ahead of
his time
condor say thought that black people
should have
all the same civil rights as white
people he thought that black people
should be able to marry and have
children with white people condors say
thought women should be able to vote
women should be able to debate
you know politics and participate in
democracy just like men
condorcet was on the kind of modern
leading edge of a whole bunch of
important ideas and questions and he had
a lot of challenging useful things to
say about
democracy why do you think it is
that nietzsche nietzsche who's you know
much closer to modern this centuries
later and this is this is
before and during the french revolution
you know nietzsche is a significant
series of generations later
why do you think that someone like hegel
someone like nietzsche
or someone like hobbes is held up as the
important
philosopher for us to read that's so
important and meaningful
for our times right um
and you know there's other forms of kind
of highly eccentric
propaganda that creep into you know
these these problems
now machiavelli is actually a
tremendously important political
philosopher
uh for the history of democracy in
europe but also in the united states of
america
i have a very large very heavy book here
which you don't need to buy don't need
to read
but this book exists so you can say it
and say oh yeah in case you don't
believe
my claim that machiavelli is really
important for this your democracy in
america
oh i can i can tell you about this book
i can give you a footnote saying this
book
the machiavellian moment by j.g.a pocock
yes as pocock established you know
machiavelli's importance for the
democratic tradition in both england and
the united states of america can hardly
be overstated it's tremendous
tremendously important
tremendously influential and what side
of these debates
was machiavelli on he was fundamentally
a modernizer fundamentally a
democratizer fundamentally
you know trying to find a way to revive
the best aspects of republicanism from
the ancient world
in what was then the modern world or the
contemporary world right
uh who who was thomas hobbes
and why does hobbes matter all right
like
sorry i'm i'm going to come back to
china addressing his his question
directly all right
[Music]
i don't i don't hand out recommended
reading for this reason okay
if i know you if i know what you're
trying to learn
if i know what your research project is
maybe i can tell you something really
meaningful and really important about
what it is
you're doing you know what i mean like
maybe i can make a recommendation
for you i'm not going to make
recommendations for all mankind or
something
and like who is it who can pretend that
leviathan by thomas hobbes is meaningful
for all
people for all mankind if you had a
friend born and raised in japan
who tells you they're trying to
understand the european democratic
tradition like what went on in ancient
times and what went on
would you tell your japanese friend well
thomas hobbs
would you tell your japanese friend oh
friedrich nietzsche and who's
like oh how about immanuel kant there's
a laugh jesus christ
would you tell them to waste their time
uh
going back and reading those thinkers
and you know and if so why
what is it they're supposed to learn was
it they're supposed to gain from it
now you know
conversely someone might have
a very specific interest that would
motivate them to read and appreciate
thomas hobbs thomas hobbes is a minor
footnote
in the history of the english civil war
and we have an educational tradition
high school and university where we
don't teach kids anything
about the english civil war and most so
i mean i can ask melissa melissa did you
learn like even the name of the french
revolution did you get like a
two-sentence
yeah okay so you you see your history
education in high school they included a
unit on the french revolution or what
i wouldn't say but uh in probably
not the ninth grade okay so there was
there was there was a paragraph or
something in the in the history textbook
okay manel so that's that's the french
revolution now what about the english
revolution aka the english divorces
approximately one century earlier you
know okay
i'm from a british colony and we didn't
get we didn't get one sentence we didn't
get one word about okay so
the real story the real political
philosophical questions of the time all
the stuff that really
you know matters none of that's you know
including our education
but without any of this context we're
given the bizarre
spectacle of the philosophy of thomas
now if you just pick up a copy
of hobbs leviathan and leaf through it
or like look at the table of contents
kind of glance at it
you'll think whoa about 50
of this book is this guy's bizarre
interpretation
of the bible that's what it is
all right now the whole english civil
war
took place in a period of time that we
could call
um the puritan uprising
the the blossoming fourth of what we now
in retrospect call
puritanism now like puritanism as a
concept only makes sense kind of looking
back at history
if you were alive at that time there are
a whole bunch of different religious
sects and movements and orders
that don't consider themselves one of
the same movement but now and they all
wore funny hats
right and now we call them puritans and
it's especially from an american
perspective they're called puritans
because many of them when the english
civil war came to an end were
uncomfortable
and went to america no sorry to be fair
some of them were also uncomfortable
before
the english civil war and and went to
america and now
long story short guys you had a period
of internacing
religious carnage
and at the end of it broadly speaking
there was a mood of returning
to orthodox anglicanism people like whoa
we tried this thing
with everyone coming up with their own
wacky heterodox interpretation of the
bible
and uh you know what the english book of
common prayer
isn't that bad right um you know people
uh went through the process of um
you know entertaining uh
wacky heterodox new ideas from people
like thomas hobbes
people like um oliver cromwell himself
people went through a brief period of
thinking you know maybe the church
doesn't have a monopoly on the truth
maybe each of us can be better
christians you know alone
with our own personal relationship with
god directly praying and directly
reading the scripture and coming up with
our own
ideas and you know what it led to
it led to banning and burning the
english book of common prayer
it led to banning christmas now i'm an
atheist i'm completely in favor of
banning christmas
but these people were banning christmas
and banning the english book
of comfort because they were too
christian for it they were too
puritanical for it
thus the term puritans now in our own
time this is not
so different i mean okay it is it is
different
but you could say this is somewhat
similar to the way that jehovah's
witnesses in the united states of
america refuse to celebrate christmas
refuse to celebrate halloween
they say no they want to really strictly
stick to what it what it says in the
bible in this country okay so this one
no you know okay so just if you ask me
what's interesting about thomas hobbs
what's interesting about hobbs leviathan
and this is
a younger person i don't know how old
this person is he doesn't stay this age
this is somebody's been watching my
channel for six months they seem they
seem kind of young
they seem like they're uh again i don't
know if this is someone who's already
been to university that's trying to
compensate for all things they didn't
learn
university or if someone hasn't been to
university yet i really don't know it
might be interesting to just know
roughly
uh how how old or how young danny is it
could be a 50 year old person from the
style of writing i'm guessing this is a
young person
i guess also the um the self-portrait he
has with the email
suggested me is younger person yeah it's
it's a cartoon but still it doesn't it
doesn't
look like an older person's cartoon um
but anyway presuming this is a younger
person
you know asking this question like oh
well you know thomas
is is really important well politically
thomas hobbes is a total dead end
philosophically
he's a total dead end he represents a
kind of branch
that went off from the mainstream and
was a total failure and went absolutely
nowhere
now someone like machiavelli
fundamentally says that he
worships and respects the ancient greek
sources the ancient roman sources
he has this admiration for antiquity he
describes himself as being in dialogue
with antiquity but of course he does
also present his own
new and and genuinely edgy ideas about
politics about morality about the future
about
how they should have a republic now and
he he is not
lacking the self-confidence to to really
point out when those ancient sources are
wrong
in his opinion there are where he says
no no you know well this is what the
ancient romans say
but here's where they're wrong here's
what you need to know to run a polity to
run a
kingdom or a republic you know in his
own time
in italy okay so but but fundamentally
tremendous admiration
for aristotle uh and all of the ancients
um
thomas hobbes is the one guy
who says that no it's all
thomas hobbes is the one guy who says
uh this is from memory but this is not
far off from a verbatim quote
he says nothing has been bought at so
dear a price in human blood as the
learning
of ancient tongues you people
you read livy you read salas you read
appian whatever you read these ancient
latin historians you read aristotle what
was it
of aristotle he said has there ever been
a worse teacher has ever
you get these notions into your head
about
freedom and human rights or natural
rights whatever you get this you get
this discourse
about freedom and democracy and rights
and then you guys all slaughter each
other
for nothing and guess what your whole
ideology is
now look i'm a nihilist
there's a certain perspective from which
you can kind of
get on the roller coaster ride of thomas
hobbes insanity
and kind of appreciate it for what it is
it's this total dead end
he rejected all of the elements that
went into the construction of what you
could call
modern capitalism modern liberalism
modern democracy he said nope
wrong wrong wrong wrong and instead he
has this kind of
fundamentally authoritarian
interpretation of scripture
and based on his understanding of the
bible and based on his understanding of
human nature
he says look this is how it is this is
the reality of politics
now i say it's fundamentally
authoritarian i could argue about
the limited role for personal freedom
and personal happiness in the system but
this is not supposed to be an hour-long
lecture on the political philosophy of
hobbes
but you know i admit put it this way
hobbes does not believe
that a human being is a bee that exists
only to serve the queen
he doesn't believe that you are a worker
ant that exists only to serve the colony
that's not his philosophy however he
totally rejects democracy he totally
rejects all these
ideas about freedom and liberty and
rights and even consultation with
he rejects all of it he says it's all
wrong so what's
what's interesting about this
and why why is
a christian fundamentalist maniac
like thomas hobbes why is he
taught as being so important and not
condorcet why is condorcet
forgotten because he really is i mean
this this is a brand new book and the
introduction is basically saying oh you
know condorcet has been almost
completely forgotten
you know uh this one too uh the
introduction more or less you know
they talk about this oh well you know
condorcet used to be one of the most
important people in the history of
western civilization but he's been
completely dropped out of the curriculum
nobody's heard the name nobody
no reason okay well this look i can i
can now tell you a bunch of things that
are bad about condorcet i can engage in
a critique of condorcet i can tell you
things he was wrong about the stupid
disadvantages of his philosophical and
political worldview
but this is a guy who was taking
democracy seriously he was taking
women's rights seriously
i think okay is it too much to say that
he was an atheist
i i have maybe this has a chapter on
that
[Laughter]
how close to being an atheist was
condorcet that i don't know
but he certainly uh he certainly was at
least a free thinker
now that time if you were an atheist you
had to keep your cards close to your
chest
uh machiavelli i mean this was published
after his death
it is completely obvious that he's an
atheist if you've read this
machiavelli's this but there is
no way this guy is even a shred of faith
this is much more explicit in my opinion
than
the prince but nevertheless you lived in
a society where if you were an atheist
you had to keep your cards
close to your chest you kind of have to
pay attention but no no no
that doesn't interest us i mean
you know the religiosity of thomas
hobbes it's
in many ways more like judaism
or it's it's a form of highly eccentric
judaism than it is
uh christianity and that was part of the
spirit of what was going on with
puritanism people were reading the whole
bible
and realizing the new testament was just
one part of it and they were getting
inspired by and interested in
the jewish old testament material there
you know
um you know so i i just say okay i
i right guys
look okay we have a troll
in the comments section again i don't
mind
if you want to criticize me i don't even
mind if you want to troll me
but you've got to rise to my level okay
so if you want to come in here
and you want to troll but you want to
agree
read hobbs read read condor say you know
this is the level we're operating on
you want to tell me i'm wrong i don't
want to talk about it great you know i
would love that i would love to have
people
in this uh in this you know comment
section
crossing stores with me but you've got
to be producing comments that are really
worth really worth answering someone can
come in and say
and and criticize uh the machiavellian
moment by pocock and take this
conversation and hold it
okay so i'm gonna i'm gonna return to so
i'm just glancing at the comments here
but it looks like you know
uh looks like there's nothing you guys
really want me to um
okay radical centrist says you use the
phrase
how we know what we know in regards to
the beginning of
economics as a science do you remember
the video or can you repeat those names
sorry it sounds like an interesting
question but i'm not really sure what
you're getting at
i assume you're talking about some video
where i talked about a reading list
you know what you would read if you're
interested in the the origins of the
european tradition of
of economics i assume
but you know
[Music]
so almighty ohm says so much is a
product of its time
so many treat philosophy chapter and
verse
i.e treat it like a religious text no
solution without compromise i liken it
to buddhism sex potentials
um okay look what i'm addressing here
is in some ways shallower and some ways
deeper than what you're saying here
ohm because i'm asking the question
why would danny read any of these texts
why would they matter to him why would
they be useful to you
here and now that's different like
okay i mean descartes
why would it possibly be rewarding or
worthwhile for you to do the research
to understand the scientific religious
intellectual and political context
surrounding
the philosophy of descartes why like
what is the point and you know in our
culture students aren't allowed to ask
that now you know i can give you a bunch
of reasons very easily as to why
condorcet is worth going
i give you a bunch of reasons why
napoleon you know the french revolution
that whole period why that's worth
knowing about
now likewise if you're talking about the
american revolution obviously even if
you find it boring
it really matters like we could talk
about why the american revolution still
matters today
and the philosophers and political
debates that that went into writing the
american constitution
there's a very clear relevance day but
you know you're talking about descartes
so what again actually descartes it's
similar to us saying about hobbes
so i trailed off by saying hobbs
religious views are in some ways closer
to judaism
uh but it would be a very eccentric form
of jesus but he was getting back to
the roots of the first few books of the
old testament a view of the world in
which
god is seen as having a physical body
like a human being with hands and feet
which he has in the old testament it's a
very different kind of
cosmology
now you know are you interested in
an eccentric christian you know
and what was going on you know emanuel
kant
whenever i've met people who claim
emmanuel kant is this
tremendously important philosopher and
let me just say briefly what he says
about
politics is horseshit
by which i do not mean to insult
horseshit perfectly a good source of
fertilizer
emmanuel kant's philosophy is worse this
man knew nothing about politics he had
no
wisdom to offer on such republicans
emmanuel kant
racist racist to his bones he was a
small town bigoted
stupid racist and his works are full of
it he wrote on quote-unquote
anthropology
he popularized the four-fold division of
races and gee what do you know
do you think he felt that white people
were the inferior race do you think he
felt the german people were the
inferiorities oh no
conveniently his interpretation of the
races of the world
none of whom he has ever met he never
left the small town in germany he grew
up in
he has no experience with politics no
experience with war no experience not
anything no interest in anything
and no interest in meeting or getting to
knowing or like learning to respect
chinese people or arab people or african
people
but he wants to sit there with his pen
and write these kind of racist
condemnations of them now guys
i'm saying this about emmanuel kant it's
not just adorama
it's also ad hominem like what we're
saying about his character as a man
and what we're saying about you know the
value of his work
they're inextricable they're one of the
same this tells you something about who
my new goodness
well so whenever i meet people who think
emmanuel kant's philosophy is is
tremendous important
i asked him oh so
what was the thesis of critique of pure
reason
why did he write the book why was he
motivated to write the book
what what's what is in common english
what is the point
of critique of pure reason and you have
to understand
it's stated by the way in the
introduction that apparently none of
them have read like it's stated from
immanuel kant
the critique of pure reason is a defense
of christian faith and it's not even as
useful as studying official church
doctrine and understanding like the wars
that were going on between different
sects of christianity at that time that
was what was going on in mainstream
channel
it's this nebish it's this guy in a
small town whose opinions don't matter
really has nothing interesting
significance to say and um
you know he is constructing this
worldview and presenting you with his
epistemology presenting with these
comments
on uh how the mind works and how we
observe and know and learn from reality
so that he can defend faith against
reason and that is even in the title
this is the title of the introduction
and i meet all these people who are
university educated
and have studied kant and they come away
saying oh emmanuel khan is tremendously
important
and you know hilariously or tragically
they can't say why
they don't know why now this tells you
something about the people and tell you
something about our education system
and tell you something about the bizarre
agenda
to try to promote german cultural
supremacy
after the end of world war ii which is
that they rummaged through
you know the the jewelry box of
german philosophers and tried to find
somebody who wasn't too
fascist somebody who wasn't too racist
wasn't too anti-semitic wasn't too evil
to make into a great philosopher so that
we'll all think of germany
19th century germany as the athens
of modern europe as the pinnacle of
intellectual development around europe
which it is not immanuel kant
was not intelligent he was not brilliant
his works still today are not worth
reading if you're
in his own time or not receiving
reading immanuel kant didn't discover
anything and what is he credited with oh
he's credited with uh inventing the idea
of the united nation
because he wrote an essay called on
perpetual peace
that any you know any high school child
you know could write today you know so
anyway
okay so i'm just going to look at some
of the uh
some of the comments here
not a question just a comment so this is
quoting noel
i learned so much from this channel very
thought-provoking content thank you
so frida comments that especially law
professors
make students read kant and kelson it's
weird
so a totally totally worthwhile comment
from almighty home again
a critique or an analysis tends to say
more about the observer than the
observed
yes but you know life is only so many
years long
i have books that are literally
underneath the camera right now my books
propping up the camera
that i would love to read and i don't
have time
i got some email from a an old friend we
don't talk anymore with a phd that was
asking me really technical questions
about
um philosophy of emmanuel kant this
about a year ago
and i remember it's like it all came
back to me a couple people have
commented in response to melissa's
recent video
that um they studied the cello
as a child and now they don't remember
it at all or they studied piano and they
don't remember how to do it it doesn't
contribute to their lives
but i'd say a lot of that philosophy i
studied in the past like and including
emmanuel khan
it's amazing that it does come back to
me i was like oh yeah i remember all
these bizarre technical terms in german
i studied german briefly
but you know i did learn some german i
learned german for reading philosophy
and so on and oh yeah and i can talk
about this stuff
but i mean you know life is only so long
and if what is worth knowing about
thomas hobbes
is that he is a footnote and a kind of
dead-ended digression
in the history of the english civil war
then you are much better off reading
a political history of the english civil
war in which perhaps thomas hobbes will
be mentioned
in a few paragraphs or maybe in a
footnote right like that's what's
significant about him
now with someone like descartes i can't
even
put him in that kind of context like i
can't even say
oh well there's some important political
or philosophical story that descartes is
a moment in
and you should read this other book and
then descartes is going to have his
paragraph or his
or his position i mean from my
perspective descartes
uh significance is you know entirely
it's not just an exaggeration it's kind
of
fiction it's whole clock uh fiction
sorry so lilac cloud writes in
i did some philosophy in high school in
the uk and the emphasis on kant and
descartes really confused me right
okay so why is that so look uh lilac
cloud uh welcome be honest i don't
remember
i'd remember you because you're such a
memorable name
okay i've met people i've met british
people
face to face and their whole struggle in
life
was christianity was that they were
raised to believe
in the christian church and this certain
kind of intellectual approach to
rationalizing the christian
church and they took kind of baby steps
towards atheism
and kant and the critique of reason
and descartes and these little
challenges step by step
and um reading some of the church
fathers i don't know reading saint
augustine and some of this crap too
you know this was their formal training
and philosophy
and some of them stuck with it some of
them really became
lifelong committed anglicans they became
committed to the rationalization of
faith
you know uh coming out of that tradition
and some of them instead
you know would eventually turn to
somebody like friedrich nietzsche you
know someone to me is a joke
philosophically is really
you know this is not even a philosopher
to me to me this is like a you know
newspaper columnist
just melting off opinions there's really
no philosophy to it
and some of them you know that process
of studying emmanuel kant
it led them to being willing to accept
some of these you know uh
genuinely anti-anti-christian so look
it's no excuse but it's an explanation
before
at the start of this conversation i gave
the example of a department of buddhist
philosophy
where you're not studying the actual
teaching of the buddha you're not
learning about buddhism in india
the whole course is just devoted to one
bizarre
branch of buddhism that only exists in
japan right okay well this is kind of
weird
and you know the japanese language is
not pali and it's not sanskrit
and it's not connected you know like the
scriptures have no real connection and
the culture and the politics and the
history has no connection
you know you can learn a lot about
christianity
by studying a certain period of time in
ancient israel right and you can learn
very little about christianity if all
that you study is say the history of the
russian orthodox church
in the 17th century you know like it's
just how it is the
russian orthodox church might be
interesting you know but in this in this
way there's this very strange you know
distortion that creeps in
however it creeps in for
a reason um these decisions
ultimately are made by particular
professors
with particular fantasies with
particular access to grind with you know
this this kind of so i just say you know
uh
it may seem random but it's not and i do
think uh to my knowledge it's pretty
much an official
government policy and an official
academic university policy in germany
i do think there has been a conscious
attempt to project
the philosophical importance of germans
and to try to find and promote the
philosophers they consider to be
not fascist not racist etc etc and they
failed
because guess what the philosophy of
hegel
is so close to fascism and is so racist
and is so christian
it might you might as well be reading a
nazi philosopher it's not
middle east not quite that bad he's
almost that bad the philosophy of
emmanuel kant
the flaws to these other guys that are
held up you'd be much better off
promoting the people who were their
inveterate critics
so again within 19th century germany has
anyone here read
furbach fleur bach was in this
christendoms
you know this has become obscure has
anyone read max sterner
we've talked a lot about max turner on
this channel you know there are some
dissident voices there are
anti-christian anti-establishment
uh voices so on and so forth okay i'll
just read a couple more comments here
coming in
right so frida asks who gets to choose
the curricula
of philosophy courses well in canada
none of this comes from the government
and i've been in conflict with
professors before where i challenged
that
so at the university of toronto i
formally you know went
and made a complaint and had meetings to
the professors and i said look i've been
here for so many years i've been there
for a lot of years at that point
and every single one of your courses is
just about
hegel kant nietzsche
that's it that's all i can study in your
department
and okay to be fair i had taken the one
course on plato
already there was a little bit of
ancient greek that's like you know and i
was pointing out philosophers that had
never been covered that had never been
taught
and i went through the records of the
last time arthur schopenhauer had been
taught and it was really just one
example for me
it wasn't really that i was committed to
schopenhauer i wasn't a
you know devotee or disciple of chopin
hour but it was something like look i
went through the records and the last
time schopenhauer was taught this
remember like the last time was taught
was 1976 or something
you know so they are decisions made by
small numbers of human beings
and most of those human beings are kind
of gormless confessed
who don't ask these questions okay let's
be let's be all the way real
they do not question how will this help
my students they do not question
what is the use of this for my students
they think
oh oh thomas hobbes this is a great book
this is an important book the book is
important we have to do justice to the
book
so we have to force the students to read
the book oh emanuel kant
that's an important oh as if this is an
inherent quality in the book
this is an important book we have to
teach the students emanuel khan and then
if you ask any of these other questions
oh well
why isn't condor say on the list oh i'm
sorry we have so many great important
books we just
you know there's no there's no room on
the shelf there's no room in the course
anymore
and there is absolutely no questioning
of i'm sorry what is the confidence the
student is supposed to gain
what's the job they're supposed to be
able to do ultimately what is it they're
supposed to learn
now i just say i've always been a fan of
um area studies
as an approach by contrast so area
studies this is
this is the technical term used um
you know area studies would instead of
an approach like saying okay
if you're going to understand the french
revolution these are the people you have
to
to so you have an area france and you
have a period of time say okay we're
going to do these 200 years
in france so who matters jean-jacques
rousseau matters
voltaire matters condorcet matters now
we start to get a list of names that
make sense and they connect
to each other in in a way that makes
sense the definition of the department
as
philosophy per se or the definition
department even worse
politics you have a department that's
just called
politics so you walk in and say
elections in egypt what do you got for
me
oh no no no we don't we don't do that
here we do politics what do you mean
this is the department of politics who's
going to cover
elections in egypt what other department
is there now if you have area studies
that would cover that you could have an
area studies department that covers
egypt and syria or something you know
you have a department specialized in the
middle east
but if you have a department that's
called philosophy you have departments
called politics none of them will cover
it
they will all unquestioningly follow a
canon of
so-called great books from so-called
great
dead white men you know this is just
unquestioned eurocentric exception
and then you know guys the last several
years i've been doing china
china is not a marginal country not now
not 500 years ago not 1 000 years ago
china's a big deal now it's been a big
deal for thousands of years
all right you walk in oh okay so what
what do you guys got on china
nothing right so before
i had to have a kind of humility when i
was doing like sri lanka
cambodia thailand laos like i understood
i come into the room be like look
these i've been doing politics and
history and philosophy in this part of
the world i understand you guys have
nothing for me but how are we going to
make this work
now i'm doing china for several years
and it's like really bro
really you're you're out here teaching
thomas hobbes
you're out here teaching emmanuel kant
and pretending that emmanuel kant's
essay immanuel kant's pamphlet
on perpetual peace supposedly the
invention of the united nations
which by the way has worked out great
right like emmanuel kansas
pamphlet on perpetual peace is such a
brilliant work of philosophy
that today in myanmar they have
democracy and today in
israel and palestine they have peace
because the united nations is a huge
success right it's been a really great
idea right
right oh and yugoslavia and haiti
and any other example oh cambodia any
example
of a un intervention you can name
they're all really successful
it's worked out really great oh and i'm
sorry where did this all begin again
oh have you heard of the korean war do
you know what the united nations did in
the korean war oh
thank you emmanuel account thank you for
this pamphlet
that any high school student today could
write let's let's just break down for
those who don't know perpetual peace
this is my name is emmanuel khan
and here is my essay on perpetual peace
some people think that you know um
people are always in civil war with
other people
but when they have a government they
have no civil war
because they all serve the same
government so they have peace
so you know now we have this problem
where one government
has war with another government but we
can solve it the same way
you have another government so now you
know the same way
there's no civil war when you have a
government there's no international war
when you have an international
government because you have you have
another
so there are no more problems yeah
yeah bro uh you know um the roman empire
there was just no war in the whole
history that it was
gabriel that totally worked you know
why would you who could see anything
wrong with going back
especially if it's a eurocentric roman
empire especially if you're talking
about
white europeans conquering africa and
the middle east which is exactly what
you're talking about right like oh
who can see who can see a problem with
how this is going to go
what's wrong with the french empire with
the british empire who would question
this oh emmanuel
perpetual peace oh yeah sure bro
this is idiocy and of course in practice
the united nations has been a disaster
in case you have difficulty
um interpreting sarcasm oh
but look sorry all right
come back come back let me just reread a
little bit okay
so he says all over the internet are
lists and charts
that contain many influential persons
and philosophers descartes
kant hegel and many others uh leading up
to 20th century thinkers
uh okay
what did kant and hegel influence
what you have to challenge that okay i
can tell you right now what congress say
influenced right condorcet influenced
the french revolution the american
revolution and the whole history of the
rest of the world
honduras say also a brilliant scientist
brilliant mathematician
influenced the history of science right
his brilliance is proven
the consequences of this philosophy are
proven okay machiavelli here
right machiavelli influenced the whole
world
his work is still sold in airport
bookstores people
want to read machiavelli people are
forced to read emmanuel kant right like
he's influential intellectually
intellectual politically and by the way
in his own life
he was a really important political
leader he influenced the history of
italy
directly as a politically and that's why
the book has this very tragic
air i was saying before that immanuel
kant never left his hometown
never had direct experience with you
know real politics well
machiavelli really did machiavelli had
experience with the mud
and blood and hypocrisy of politics he
had been tortured himself and beaten up
himself and he'd seen other men being
tortured and killed and fighting in
these wars he knew war he knew peace
he knew democracy he was part of a
democratic
republican government in florence and he
saw that democracy fall apart he saw it
be conquered
and turned into a kind of despotism you
know
he saw the rise and fall of democracies
plural within italy
during his lifetime so you get that you
get that feeling something you're
never going to get from an imbecile like
emmanuel kant or
uh or gwf hegel all right
uh guys i just say so we are now 50
minutes
in the live stream 49 minutes and 40
seconds
34 people in the audience we have only
17 thumbs up now i understand i
understand some of you are sitting on
the fence and you're not
sure if you want to hit the thumbs up
button but it will help people find the
video it will help more people
see the live stream while it's going on
if while you're here you hit thumbs up
i totally understand washington ten
first ten minutes you're like i'm not
sure what
is this going to be about veganism again
is this going to be
you know i understand you don't you're
not sure if you want to hit the thumbs
up but
okay we're 40 minutes into it or
whatever 50 minutes in now
i i dare to ask the question could you
hit the thumbs up button so more people
will see the video
and more people can can join the
conversation okay as i've paused as you
hit the thumbs up button i'll glance
again
do so okay great so some of these
questions that you're anticipating stuff
i do want to talk about
lilac cloud says i honestly expected
some political philosophy especially
from the ancient greeks
but it was mostly meaningless stuff
about perception that what we do
actually exists both show this right so
this is the other thing so i mean the
guy's asking about reading and grace and
stuff
there are really meaningful
works about politics and political
philosophy from ancient greece
and really wrong and i'm going to say
this clearly there are there are works
of philosophy and politics and history
from that period
where you don't need my interpretation
you don't need someone reading between
the lines to explain to you
what's interesting about it you know
what i mean um
[Music]
it's right up there on the surface
what's interesting but even if you're 19
years old or something like if you're a
younger person
you you know i mean you're going to get
what the point is so i read in my last
uh live stream the the from the first uh
chapter of
appian appian an ancient roman historian
civil war and you get a discussion about
slavery and poverty
and the struggle between the rich and
the poor and the senate and it's about
democracy and it's about the lack of
democracy and wow
right up on the surface there's
something really meaningful and really
relevant to politics and life and
philosophy as it is today
and it's meaningful to life as it exists
today
and it's meaningful to human nature as
it exists today
you can also read works especially
religious works
that are not meaningful to life today
whatsoever one of melissa's comments
when i first put together the reading
list for her
on um on you know ancient greece and
ancient rome
she said she was surprised there was no
mythology there
uh by the way babe do you want to grab
the book we have the book on uh
yes yeah yeah yeah another great source
book for understanding
uh cultural and political context in um
in ancient greece and romans to read the
theater so this is not
this is not like reading philosophy or
reading politics but you know
in reading aristophanes this is a book
we got recently
i think this was a gift from the
audience so quite a few of these books
i'm holding up were actually given us
by uh viewers like you so condorcet on
modernity this was a gift from a viewer
i didn't have to pay for this myself
and this book on uh aristophanes um
so yeah the subtitle here is critique of
the gods so this is especially drawing
attention to the way in which
aristophanes is a heretic
or an atheist he's a skeptic about
religion and he's cross-examining
criticizing
so there's a moment in one of his plays
where
the main character uh renounces his
religion and he has a small statue
i think it was the hermes the messenger
god but maybe i'm forgetting which which
god it was but he's a small statue to
one of the gods it's not zeus it's one
of the smaller gods
and he reviles the statue he says oh to
think that i used to worship a statue
you know now i have philosophy now i'm
intellectually but now i know this is
just carved out of wood i don't worship
a statue anymore
and then later as the as the drama
progresses he becomes disillusioned
with the philosophy of socrates and he
goes back to the statue
he takes the statue back and he puts it
up on its alcove and he worships the
statue again you know
so you do get this this kind of
commentary you get you do get a sense of
it
um but look you know
there are books from ancient greece and
ancient rome
that are complete and i would i
would say as an
easy example the stuff about religious
mythology
is right
now within european philosophy broadly
why is it that lilac cloud so lila cloud
is old enough that he or she has already
been
to university right why is it
that when you enrolled in this course in
philosophy you were taught nothing but
meaningless questions about perception
that do we really exist
et cetera it's a choice right like
people are making these choices you know
what you learn at university doesn't
have to be useless
but it is and you know nobody is
questioning what kind of life they're
preparing you for what what it is you're
supposed to know and
i just say um you know the bad old days
of the british empire the battle days of
um
you know classicism classical studies
in england and the united states of
america one of the reasons why
they studied more meaningful philosophy
in a more meaningful way
was that they openly said they were
preparing you
for life as a soldier and life as a
political
leader of men so what did you read and
how did you read it
you read seneca and you read aristotle's
rhetoric
and you learned this is what it's like
to stand up in front of an audience
whether that's parliament or whether
that's other soldiers in your unit
and make an argument for what you think
we need to do next
when your life is literally on the line
and they read xenophon
xenophon's anabasis that was always the
level one reading that's where you'd
start
with the class the first thing you read
xenophon
he depicts soldiers in a democracy
the soldiers elect their leader
directly their commanders are elected
by the men and when the commanders
explain their plan for what they're
going to do next they have to convince
their men
they have to get a vote right it's not a
question of blind
obedience story and why was this taught
to young men they were preparing young
men
for what was thought of as a meaningful
life a life of taking responsibility
now of course whether they went into
business or whether they went into war
or went into government or what have you
it was saying look we are providing you
with this this preparation
whether that is reading appian or livy
or salist or aristotle
now i'll give you a counter example
within aristotle so i just said you can
read aristotle's politics you can read
aristotle's rhetoric
you can read aristotle's constitution of
athens those are meaningful texts
i would say that aristotle's metaphysics
is completely meaningless for people
today the only reason to read
aristotle's metaphysics is to understand
its influence on the catholic church
so the development of the catholic
church the development of neoplatonism
and neoplatonism and the catholic and
even the protestant church
you know that's a totally different
province frankly of
so you could have a fascinating
university course that's really useful
for people today
really dealing with political and
philosophical ideas that are in
aristotle
but you could just buy the different
selection of texts with a different bias
have a course that's really a complete
waste your time
um i i would just say also i feel that
aristotle's book ethics
is completely useless for people to
waste your time there are a few
paragraphs
in ethics that are relevant
and they're often quoted in the
footnotes to copies of aristotle's
politics
because like during politics they'll say
oh you know there's a similar passage in
ethics here and there
but so you see there are some books by
aristotle
that are a complete waste of your time
and it is not a coincidence
that those are the kind of true believer
religious
books within aristotle's own
uh milia and by the way if you don't
know long story short the catholic
church
it went through a period where they were
burning aristotle's books
and then they had you know formal
conclaves and discussions of this oh hey
wait wait wait it turns out aristotle
isn't
such a bad pagan after all his
philosophy is pretty close to our
philosophy
and then everything switched and the
catholic church started interpreting
aristotle to be a christian before
christ
and the ultimate um emblematization of
this
the taking of this bizarre cultural
hybridity
um this this reclaiming of certain
aspects of classicism in the dark ages
of christianity uh comes in the middle
of uh dante's inferno
so dante's inferno is a famous book of
fiction
it's not fact it's not a documentary
it's a fictional account
of a man who travels to hell and then
walks
to paradise you can walk from hell to
heaven
um again not a documentary um
but you know uh there's a stage where he
walks past
the christians before christianity they
have a special place in limbo
so he walks past socrates and aristotle
and these people there was a recognition
that there were these
there were these people who were so
intelligent that before christ
brought his message to the world and
before europeans started
converting to a form of judaism which is
what christianity is
that they figured out you know the
mystery of the one true god or something
so yeah this is a digression to say it
is possible to have courses that are
complete
working even from these same
sources of these same authors
uh that i'm praising but you know okay i
mean nobody
told me about thucydides nobody told me
about appian nobody told me
i come from a similarly benighted
educational background if you went to
you know the department of philosophy
university toronto i've already said all
you ever heard about basically at that
time was hegel and nietzsche
all right and i'm sorry talk about a
direction for my digression when you
read these names so i was asking the
question
why do you think kant is important why
do you think angle is important
it's only important from two
perspectives one
is a kind of crypto fascist
christian conservative view of the world
that doesn't exist in the 21st century
it was a form of christian conservatism
that existed in the 19th century
right that's one perspective from which
names like uh
you know hobbes also but hobbes and
hegel and kant and so on that
and then the other perspective of course
is karl marx
it's the attempt of marxists to make
marxism seem like the completion of a
philosophy
that began with hegel which is
completely ridiculous and
counterproductive
but marxists often try to do this thing
like oh no man if you really want to
understand the roots of marxism you got
to go back to hegel
which is again a complete waste of your
time especially compared to reading
you know appian or salist or condorcet
or machiavelli or all kinds of things
that are
much more worth reading uh given that
you have only only so many years on this
planet
so uh manila nick m comments
the un is actually pretty legit so i
don't know if you're still in the crowd
uh
manila nick i i disagree okay
and you know challenge yourself in this
way why don't you look up
how the salaries are established for the
united nations
and once you look up how voting works at
the united nations
there is a reason why the united nations
could never accomplish anything
in the israel-palestine conflict there's
a reason why they never accomplished
anything positive
in cambodia or haiti or anywhere else
structurally
it is at best a flawed design
procedurally it is incapable of making
precisely the difference in the world
that promises to make
and every single employee of the united
nations
is paid more to do their job
than they would be paid if doing
an equivalent job in the highest paid
country anywhere in the world
so let's say you're an agricultural
advisor for the united nations
being sent to laos or cambodia those are
people i used to meet
so they look at how much is an
agricultural expert paid
in switzerland in luxembourg
in the united states of america and they
pay you more than that
and then you go to a country like laos
or cambodia where the cost of living is
very low
there's a lot of money involved there's
a lot of explicit
overt corruption involved and the people
who make decisions about cambodia at the
united nations
know less about cambodia than i do so
there's a brief digression but it's
worth saying
why did the british empire fail why did
the british empire have to fail
you had people in london making
decisions about
myanmar who had never been to myanmar
who was then called burma
you had people in london making
decisions yes about places like laos and
cambodia who'd never gone there who
didn't know the language who didn't know
anything about it who didn't understand
the cultural let alone political
context okay the united nations as it
exists now reproduces these
awful features of imperialism
and that is seen in how awful the
outcomes are whether it is in
haiti or cambodia or tibet
or right now in myanmar this is 2021's
if if you think
the united nations is pretty legit
manila neck
all right wondersham what are your
predictions what are your predictions
between 2021 and 2022
for what the united nations is going to
do in myanmar
and my my prediction is jack
and meanwhile you can just look at
the grocery bill
you can see just how much money is being
spent
to accomplish jack and guys there
are so
give you two examples there were
meetings at the u.n where they were
spending
millions of dollars just to have the
meeting just the cost of putting
everyone in a five-star hotel
and each one of these people is being
paid a salary over a hundred thousand
dollars
spending a huge amount of money to have
a meeting and they hear and listen to a
bunch of
reports about indigenous peoples and how
oppressed they are
and they vote and they sagaciously
decide to grant 300
for some you know indigenous peoples you
know
when you i mean i'm sorry any aspect of
the un whether you're looking at it in
terms of
environment veganism like you know
food and agriculture organization the
advocacy for the meat industry
versus eliminating meat and pursuing a
vegan diet a vegan word would you look
at the ecological side
it's when you look at the war
and peace side when you look at the
endangered languages indigenous peoples
side
there is no aspect of the un i can speak
about positively and when the cost is
that high
you know you have to have some kind of
standards if we took that same money
and just gave it to the indigenous
people just handed it to them instead of
having this meeting
we just said hey you figure out how to
teach your language and stop your
language from going extinct
instead of us having a um the outcomes
are better i have to say to
um you know i've read direct transcripts
of the un meetings on cambodia and all
the people at those meetings know less
about cambodia and i do and it's
sickening
and by the way they're from all around
the world so like there's somebody there
from india
on the microphone talking about the
stuff about cambodia and they're like
you know they're supposedly going to
improve women women's rights in cambodia
or some you know
whoo at every stage it's scary so it's
it's not just what europeans who are
ignorant about cambodia or ignorant
about haiti
and the same thing if you look at the
stuff on haiti well yeah you got some
people from india you got some people
from saudi arabia you got
representatives from around the world
and they're all completely ignorant of
the cultural and political situation in
haiti
and there are millions of dollars being
wasted and so forth so the the track
record of failure
uh at the united nations it it reflects
deep and shallow problems
with international okay uh anyway guys
thanks for thanks for making intelligent
comments i mean you know i uh
i do uh i do appreciate it
can i just try to catch up here
okay um so doom one 1063
asks isn't hobbes valuable because he
was the first social contract theorist
who based political legitimacy outside
of religion that is completely false
so doom that is a fascinating example of
a statement every single aspect of which
is false i can talk about
how hobbs fits into social contract but
no
absolutely nothing you've just said is
is uh is correct and no
his theory of state and government is by
no means a secular one
or outside of religion but no i mean i i
i don't know
who would have possibly told you that
but anyway um
[Music]
do
radical centrist is asking again about
the history of economics
yup you can go go back and watch the
video so you remember what it is yeah i
remember i did make videos talking about
karl marx
and the origins the the pre-marxist uh
history of economics and how marxism is
distorted the way we now remember
go back just search my channel for call
marks and guys i'll give this if you're
having trouble because
youtube it is not easy to search the
database of
uh more than 2 000 videos on my channel
so sorry who is this radical centrist
check out this link
you can search here for the word marks
but i think there are only about two
videos
i did on mark's maybe three maybe it's
five but anyway there aren't that many
you can just search for the word marks
there and you'll you'll get the videos
done with that stuff
we have a question sir i've many
articles and many videos about buddhism
we have a question from ddp do you
believe the buddha was mythical
so i have written articles dealing with
that but i also have enough videos about
it
you could search my channel for the word
um apotheosis
i'll give you that link
that's a good place to start but yeah i
have written articles also in addition
in addition to making videos discussing
that question
uh so this is
pdp but there's a video to get you
started
you can watch some of the other videos
or read some of my articles in print
frida is asking is cicero worth reading
so frida stay tuned
most of cicero is not worth reading
so quite a long time ago on the channel
i talked about his work
de republica on the republic of the
republic
for most people that is not worth
reading i read it
i will make videos in the future talking
about cicero's
uh lectures or declamations and there
may be some bits and pieces worth
reading or i may say to you
you know don't waste your time just just
watch my youtube videos talking about it
so you know um a lot of cicero is not
worth your time
but obviously a tremendously influential
author so you know
in the sense you know
[Music]
sorry i don't have an official uh
uh whistling policy okay lila cloud this
is your first time
uh but you lila cloud agrees with me
about the united the united nations
lilac cloud says quote the u.n
peacekeepers are also a sick joke
they're notorious for their abuse um i
heard they somewhat held the situation
in bosnia in the 90s but i looked into
it probably
yeah so you know um
[Music]
uh the recent scandals in
haiti i think were the ones that drew
people's attention most
to the extent to which the u.n
peacekeepers are their own source of
rape and human rights abuses
that they all all the same problems you
could have with a national army
you can have and more you can have even
worse with uh
you know uh with the united nations army
so you know an army is an army
and again you can get into
organizationally who
are the soldiers who do they report to
where were they trained because the
united nations isn't a separate
country why does that work out uh so
much worse
than um having the swiss show up and act
as peacekeepers whatever but look let's
just say very briefly
the origin the sorry the whole history
of the united nations stage managing
elections
has gone very poorly and why is it that
so
few countries have succeeded in making
the transition to democracy
okay egypt egypt has 100 million people
doesn't democracy in egypt matter
doesn't it matter to the united nations
like i admit maybe myanmar is not your
top
priority what about russia you know what
about ukraine i mean
yeah ukraine is another great example
why does the united nations not seem to
care about
oh hey have you uh have you heard about
a little island just south of turkey
called cyprus in greek pronounced kupros
have you thought about the record of the
united nations on
cyprus scary it's so bad it's scary
and yeah there are u.n peacekeepers
there basically permanently
for decades and decades and doesn't
solve the problem so yeah
we have a problem in our culture of
perceiving weakness
as strength of perceiving
failure as success and success as
failure and the united nations is a
sterling example of that um okay do i
have anything
else to say about this i'm going to read
the conclusion of this question one more
time all right
the big put the big picture question
that i couldn't find answers to
is why are all of these thinkers being
taught in universities
why should i or society care for them
should i skip them or read a select few
my current plan is to go through your
and melissa's list
and after i finish with it i'll start
with descartes and the lot
so actually so this is more thomas more
utopia
hobbs and then descartes um look
my advice is kind of parallel to and
similar to what i said earlier but the
difference between
area studies and these definitions
that are more abstract like philosophy
and politics
as a topic if you just study politics as
defined in a eurocentric way
you're never going to do politics of
japan you're never going to do politics
of sri lanka you're never going to do
politics of uh you know uh egypt or
whatever you know you're never gonna do
politics of anywhere i mean also if you
do politics in university you're never
gonna do politics of england
i mean it's pathetic i mean i mentioned
recently in a video at some length you
never learn anything about italy
i mean italy really matters all these
places matter i think the way to
approach
this kind of reading is through a series
of
projects babe could you grab just a
couple of your central asia books just
whatever's handy grab like two of them
and bring them over to me
you know um so you know
i i i keep saying i'm gonna do a video
talking about um
napoleon right now i don't think you
should do a research project
about one man you know in the same way
that i don't think you should read any
of these people
kind of in isolation definitely don't
read descartes in isolation don't read
hobbs in isolation don't read hegel in
isolation it's meaningless
right but if you said okay i want to
understand
what happened in the 50 years leading up
to the french revolution
and in the 50 years after the french
revolution then obviously
napoleon becomes meaningful but also the
amount of reading you do becomes finite
rather than infinite it's not like oh
i'm going to read the complete works
i'm going to read the whole bookshelf on
napoleon right
now also if you do that and if you're
being honest with yourself what your
interest is i would say for example
atheism becomes a crucial question okay
so in the 50 years
before the french revolution what was
going on in terms of religion and
atheism
oh well all of a sudden now there were
emerges as a really important author
someone like holbach
someone like helvetius so i'm just going
to type these out
so you may not have heard of these
authors no this is part of what western
academia sucks
why our high school education sucks and
also our university education sucks
now from this perspective you say okay
i'm taking on a job maybe
again start a youtube channel start a
blog or start writing articles do
whatever you want to do
but if you have a youtube channel okay i
am going to do a series of videos where
i summarize my conclusions and my
findings about
what happened 50 years leading up to
french revolution 50 years after
okay and i'm being honest about what my
interests are so i'm interested in
slavery because i'm alive in the 21st
century i'm interested in racism against
black people
i'm interested in atheism versus
christianity maybe you're also
interested in the status of women
you know like maybe sorry maybe not
let's just say hypothetically given who
who's in my audience i'm talking to you
maybe you're interested in how ancient
greek
ideas and how ancient roman ideas got
reinterpreted and reinvented
in that period in france or that period
in in western europe right
okay so now you've got a bunch of
interests and now napoleon
fits into that as one puzzle piece and
you're going to do a certain amount of
reading about napoleon but you're not
going to let it take over decades of
your life
but now also people like
holbach and helvetius and probably also
you know condorcet here whose book i
people have probably these other
thinkers start to fit in as puzzle
pieces and now you have a sense of
mission
you have a sense of purpose you know
what it is you want to understand
now i just say i don't think i don't i'm
not praising condorcet
in a one-sided way here another question
you might have in looking at that period
of 100 years
is what did these people have to say
about the american revolution
because these things happen almost
simultaneously you have the unfolding of
american politics and
politics i think what condorcet says
about the american revolution is kind of
dumb
it's interesting i'm glad i read it you
know but you look at it he's like oh
yeah they're going to abolish slavery
any day now oh the american revolution
is going great it's just a matter of
time before they abolish slavery give
evil equal rights to black people
guess again conor said he was quite
naive he was quite jejune about and
quite naive about relationship with the
uh the first nations people the
indigenous people too the genocide
that there were things he was just wrong
about
his heart was in the right place but he
was wrong about these things
um so you know but when you have that
sense of mission and purpose you're then
not going to be disappointed you're not
going to be frustrated with that because
your analysis of that
fits into that puzzle these are puzzle
pieces fitting into
your your project and now later after
you've done that
if you want to especially read more
about napoleon or especially read more
about
slavery or what was going on and you
know these different things
you when you teach philosophy that way
when you teach politics that way or when
you teach yourself that way
you gain confidence you gain
a skill that you can use in the real
world and it still matters now
like still today you will be hearing
about the ban on headscarves
in france and quebec there is the
struggle between secularism and
organized religion in french politics
still to this day
that 100 has its origins in the french
revolution
and napoleon like french revolution was
one thesis
and napoleon was a counter thesis you
know what i mean one was moving in one
direction one movie in the other
and that the compromise between the two
forces you can say produce
the legal and political and cultural
framework that still carries on to the
state and you
you will find if you read this way
you've gained real confidence
if you read thomas hobbs leviathan in
isolation you gain no confidence if you
read kant in isolation if you read
hegel in isolation if you read descartes
in isolation and the worst thing is the
main way these people
read these books is just oh this man was
a genius
he was a great man don't question why he
was a genius don't question what he
discovered or what he accomplished or
what his influence position is
you read it in this isolated way where
you gain no confidence and no
comparative awareness either so just
just to finish that example of the the
french revolution learning about the
french revolution that way
you will not regard napoleon as a genius
if you're reading him in that way in
that context i don't think you'll regard
any of them
as geniuses like holbach and helvetia's
the two guys i just mentioned
you would see them as people who were
competing with other authors
right you're like oh yeah so this was
one guy who had a hit book and he was
kind of responding to and competing with
this other guy who had a hitbook
and all these people influenced napoleon
and napoleon was imitating this guy and
reacting
you get a sense of the political and
intellectual and philosophical
competition
going on in all directions and pushing
and pulling at the republic
all at the same time and then you get a
sense of how it unfolds so again that's
that's
very different from the way academia at
least english speaking at the midwest
it puts these people on a pedestal and
i'll just really brief sorry i could
talk about this all day
that's what i see done with socrates too
right oh
what do you need to know about socrates
that socrates was a great man you know
and he's presented in isolation in this
bizarre way
that makes him meaningless and no that's
that's not who socrates was that's not
why he mattered you know it's socrates
story
we had the book yeah in reality socrates
was the butt of many jokes in athens
they didn't think he was a great man and
they killed him in case you hadn't heard
you know hashtag spoilers and then story
ends the socrates
dead uh you know he was given a public
trial and sentenced to death and
executed
so they didn't think he was a great man
you know he was one guy
competing with these other cultural
forces and you know
and that included religious as well as
you know
uh political and philosophical voices
that he was one voice
putting his hat into the ring and he was
saying no i know
what the government ought to be i know
how politics ought to be organized and
run this is my
you know bid for power and he got
involved with a guy named alkibiatis
and really tried to change government
and politics in athens in the middle of
an ongoing civil war and so on
you know so anyway yeah
i remember i got a peer review very
negative peer review
for one of my essays i think this was
one of the essays that got published in
the end
i had essays that went through peer
review get rejected and then they get
accepted or whatever
remember one guy wrote back just
snubbing my essay and saying
oh well this is just making the point
that um
content needs to be understood in
context
that's not new like there's nothing
there's nothing it touches
i remember that you know you can imagine
this was actually someone who's a
religious buddhist
and is looking for an excuse to shut
down my article because my articles
really call into question and condemn
a lot of things that are precious and
holy to religious buddhists and their
their their faith is blind faith it's
based on ignorance that's often
contradicted
by the text you know i remember thinking
you know
you're wrong arguing for content
in context is never going to go out of
style
it's not it's never going to this is
never going to not matter
it's like your whole life people are
gonna say something about napoleon and
you're gonna have to say back well yes
but he was only doing that because at
the same time this was happening
your whole life people are gonna say
people are gonna make a statement like
this about how
thomas hobbes uh invented some
concepts and you say no no no he was
responding to these other people and
this is what was going on that's an
intellectual tradition
that goes all the way back to ancient
rome and ancient greece and well no no
this is not true at all you know um
no arguing for struggling for
understanding
content in context it never goes away it
never gets all that happens again
again so just mention a uh this book was
literally on melissa's desk when i asked
you to grab it for me
but this is an example of area an
approach where you say okay
i'm going to understand the border
between
central asia and china i'm going to
understand this region of xinjiang
western china into uzbekistan
turkmenistan etc i'm going to understand
what it's all about
so if you didn't have this project if
you didn't kind of take it so it
exists on a map geographically it also
exists chronologically right because
you're not going back 3000 years
right mostly it's the last 300 years
maybe 500 but mostly the last 30 years
okay what happened in the last 300 years
that produced this situation in xinjiang
it involves china involves russia by the
way russia is very much involved
it involves turkey at least a little bit
you know i mean involves iran
as a really politically contentious part
of the world okay and then these people
in between
the uzbeks you know the turkmenistanis
the uh the turkmen yeah the kurgis and
the
the residents of xinjiang right they're
caught in the middle right
okay if you didn't have that context we
could pick out the name
of any one of these political figures
and say oh are you interested in reading
about this guy's political philosophy no
not at all i know turkmen bashi or
something one of these one of these
leaders you know
oh do you want to read about the
philosophy of turkmenbashi no right
it's not significant it's not meaningful
it's not motivating in isolation
but if you take on the task of saying
look i'm not going to understand what's
happening in xinjiang
in the context of this
propaganda narrative that's being
presented to the world
on cnn right now i'm going to understand
it in terms of the context of 300 years
of history that involves the qing
dynasty in china it involves these
different political figures and
religious movements in central asia
and you know there are really
interesting questions here about the
future of islam and the future of
atheism and secularism the future of
democracy on planet
this becomes meaningful this becomes
rewarding it becomes
interesting and it breathes life into
what would others otherwise be a
completely boring set
of isolated texts and isolated ideas you
know
so yeah that's ultimately the end of my
my answer
a long and thorough and in-depth answer
to this
question sent in by a viewer in the
audience and a supporter on patreon
shout out to danny